# DSND-Capstone
<Holds files and other artifacts for the DSND Capstone project>

Hello and Welcome to my project - ''Robot Motion Planning'' - for the capstone of Udacity's Data Science Nanodegree program

The project relates to the domain of robot localization and movement planning. It is necessary for a robot to know its position in a real or virtual world situation, decide on the action to take and then complete the action – while considering the goal at all times. This problem is common across all mobile robots – be it a competition robot or a self-driving car or lunar rovers! This area has been of interest since the DARPA grand challenges that motivated the development of cars that could navigate open land routes. 
The core idea of this project is based on the popular maze solving competition for robots –  the Micromouse (wikipedia description) competition. I have also come across the Trinity College Firefighting Robot competition where a robot must find a room in a home (a maze) with an open fire and extinguish it in the shortest possible time. Trinity College competition references: ( Tufts University description ) (Rules of the competition).
	In both competitions, the robot has to locate a goal (either the center of the maze or a lit candle) in the shortest possible time and consistently over multiple trials. The robot depends on sensor readings – the sensors can be touch, IR, SONAR, LIDAR and/or on-board cameras. Due to the limited size of the robots the level of hardware was limited as no off-board computing is allowed. With the introduction very powerful MCUs and integrated SBCs like arduinos and Raspberry PIs the current robots have become very powerful in computing. 
	From these beginnings, one can go on to other areas such as non-maze navigation and real world mobility. Studying and solving this problem of navigating a virtual maze builds a very good foundation for further explorations. 
